# TAG Minutes Doc - Wed 4 January 2023

Present: Dan, Lea, Amy, Yves, Peter, 

Regrets: Max

### [Issue Triage](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Progress%3A+untriaged%22)

FPS: we agreed to re-evaluate next week

[744](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/744)

[CSS Nesting](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/791)

Lea: not sure if this is the right time to review - so that's where we're at.

Amy: is the review asked for on behalf of wg?

Lea: no chrome process

Peter: last time this was discussed in CSS I raised an objection - I don't think it's ready for TAG review.

Lea: should we get back to the wg and ask if it's ready for TAG review?

Dan: can we ask one of the chairs of the CSS wg to weigh in?

Lea: people should not open TAG reviews without the working group knowing... 

Amy: we do ask for

Dan: agree - when something is being worked on in a w3c working group it feels like the group should be participating in that review request.

Dan: 
<blockquote>
Hi @sesse - thanks for this. When something is being worked on in an existing w3c working group we generally like that group to be participating in the review and to have had a voice in requesting that review. @atanassov @astearns as co-chairs of the CSS wg, in your view is this ready for TAG review? Is there consensus in the wg to request a review at this time?
</blockquote>

Dan: leaves comment.

### General planning for 2023
* Upcoming virtual f2f
* Spring 2023 f2f

### [Web Without 3p Cookies Draft](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/blob/main/reviews/web_without_3p_cookies.md)

Amy: I have received a bunch of feedback - working on in - we can talk about it next week.

*discussion on whether it should be a finding*

Amy: maybe something a bit more formal would be a good thing to do. There are privacy related things in updates to the [cookies draft](https://httpwg.org/http-extensions/draft-ietf-httpbis-rfc6265bis.html#name-privacy-considerations)

Peter: in general I'm happy with us being more militant about surveilance / tracking / advertising.

Dan: I'm open to making it a Finding.

Amy: Robin suggested not tying the 3rd party cookie deprecation to the replacement specs... we could assert that the deprecation shouldn't be blocked - the overlap period we have already expressed concerns about.

Yves: as a rule if we want things to become more official - as Statements - then they should be on TR.

Peter: Notes are less substantial than findings and they are in TR

### [Privacy Principles Draft](https://www.w3.org/TR/privacy-principles/)

Dan: working on editorial... Will issue a new request for wide review likely this week.
