# TAG Teleconference
#### 01-03 May 2023

---

## Agenda:

### Breakout A (Europe / US) - [2023-05-01](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20230501T160000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=33&p7=248&p8=235)

* [Guidance on re-using/creating task sources](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/38) - @hober
* [Create launching point into the Performance APIs overview doc](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/52) - @hober
* [Generalize principle about avoiding abbreviations?](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/276) - @LeaVerou
* [New principle: CSS and HTML syntax should be side effect free](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/336)
* [New principle: Remove deprecated functionality responsibly](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/361) - @torgo
* [New principle: Deployability and Monitoring](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/368) - @torgo

### Breakout C (APAC / Europe) - [2023-05-02](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20230502T070000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=33&p7=248&p8=235)

* [New principle: Patterns for URLs in APIs](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/303) - @cynthia
* [HTML: Guidance about lists of values in attributes](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/277) - @cynthia, @LeaVerou
* [Second consistency pass for attributes/properties/methods/functions etc.](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/315)
* [New principle: Why we should not expose native object lifecycles](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/333)
* [New principle: when to use permissions, when to use user activation, and what if neither are adequate](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/341)
* [Encourage UTF-8 for new formats and APIs](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/322)
* [Discourage depending on the WTF-16 nature of JavaScript strings](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/323)

### Plenary Session - [2023-05-04](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20230504T060000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=33&p7=248&p8=235)

* Breakout Rollup
* Publish findings?
* [Issue Triage](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Progress%3A+untriaged%22)

-----


## Breakout A

Present: Peter, Amy, Rossen

Regrets: Dan, Lea, 


### [Guidance on re-using/creating task sources](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/38) - @hober

### [Create launching point into the Performance APIs overview doc](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/52) - @hober

### [Generalize principle about avoiding abbreviations?](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/276) - @LeaVerou

### [New principle: CSS and HTML syntax should be side effect free](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/336)

### [New principle: Remove deprecated functionality responsibly](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/361) - @torgo

### [New principle: Deployability and Monitoring](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/368) - @torgo


## Breakout C

Present: Dan, Amy, Hadley, Yves

Regrets:

### [Web Without 3rd party cookies](https://w3ctag.github.io/web-without-3p-cookies/)

Amy: the statement about replacement is softened...

Dan: Can you live with the current wording.

Amy: yes I can live with it.

Dan: given that - can we publish this as a finding?

Amy: Yes - i will give it another once-over right after today.

Dan: Ok i will give the group 24 hours notice.

**So resolved: we will publish as a finding unless there are objections from TAG members in 24 hours**

### TAG and chartering

*some discussion on TAG's review of targetting*

### Privacy Sandbox Reviews

*topics and shared storage - reviewing feedback thus-far*

*["official timeline" for chrome 3rd party cookie deprecation](https://privacysandbox.com/intl/en_us/open-web/#the-privacy-sandbox-timeline)*

Hadley: FLOC has stopped... 

Amy: the web site is not up to date.



### [New principle: Patterns for URLs in APIs](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/303) - @cynthia

### [HTML: Guidance about lists of values in attributes](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/277) - @cynthia, @LeaVerou

### [Second consistency pass for attributes/properties/methods/functions etc.](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/315)

### [New principle: Why we should not expose native object lifecycles](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/333)

### [New principle: when to use permissions, when to use user activation, and what if neither are adequate](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/341)

### [Encourage UTF-8 for new formats and APIs](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/322)

### [Discourage depending on the WTF-16 nature of JavaScript strings](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/323)


## Plenary Session

Present: Max, Amy, Dan, Peter, Yves, Hadley

Regrets: Sangwhan


### Breakout Rollup

#### Breakout A

Peter: we had an idea of changing the time slot of this meeting... after Tokyo...

Amy: need feedback from Max & Sangwhan...

Max: it wouldn't be great for me.

**no change agreed**

#### Breakout C

Dan: *summarizes breakout c*

*discussion of UK CMA and what role they have ascribed to the TAG*

Peter: Google are shipping FPS

Dan: Does that include RequestStorageAccessFor?

Peter: not sure...

### Publish Findings?

Dan: We have had comments on the 3p cookie finding - do we need to consider these before publishing?

Amy: I don't think so - we haven't sought public comment on this - we could say "thanks for your feedback - we have considered the issues you've raised. some of these we disagree with others we feel we have addressed in the doc."

Amy: maybe "we're really happy to see you agree with so many points..."

Peter: What about Mark's comment - asking for a reference to an http working draft doc?

*we agree to adopt that suggestion*

**Resolution to close this issue and publish the web without 3p cookies findings**

*Yves to put into TAG space*

### Issue Triage
