# TAG Teleconference
#### 26-28 Feb 2024

---

## Agenda:

### Breakout A (Europe / China) - [2024-02-26](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20240226T100000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=33&p7=248&p8=235)

* [PR on Polyfills](https://github.com/w3ctag/polyfills/pull/37)

* [BBS Cryptosuite v2023 Securing Verifiable Credentials with Selective Disclosure using BBS Signatures](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/922) - @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman

### Breakout B (California / Europe)  - [2024-02-26](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20240226T210000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=33&p7=248&p8=235)

* [Early design review: Document Picture-in-Picture](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/798) - @LeaVerou, @torgo, @rhiaro
* [Adding support for High Dynamic Range (HDR) imagery to HTML Canvas](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/917) - @LeaVerou, @plinss
* [text-wrap: pretty](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/864) - @LeaVerou, @plinss
* [Specification review for CSS Anchor Positioning](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/848) - @LeaVerou, @plinss

### Breakout C (California / Australia) - [2024-02-26](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20240226T210000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=33&p7=248&p8=235)

* [Delayed Clipboard Rendering](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/925) - @hober, @martinthomson, @hadleybeeman, @plinss
* [Invokers API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/920) - @hober, @plinss
* [Specification review for fenced frames](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/838) - @hober, @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman, @plinss

### Breakout D (California / Australia) - [2024-02-27](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20240226T210000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=33&p7=248&p8=235)

* [Isolated Web Apps](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/842) - @martinthomson, @LeaVerou
* [(Document Subtitle): Early review for adding a new value to the standard list of `name`s for a meta tag](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/819) - @hober, @LeaVerou, @torgo

* [Early design review for the Topics API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/726) - @torgo, @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman
* [Review Request for Attribution Reporting API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/724) - @torgo, @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman
* [First-Party Sets](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/342) - @hober, @torgo, @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman

### Breakout E (Europe / China) - [2024-02-28](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20240226T210000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=33&p7=248&p8=235)

* [TAG review for web app `scope_extensions`](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/875) - @torgo, @ylafon
* [Early Design Review: Opener Protections](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/916) - @torgo, @matatk, @hadleybeeman
* [Permissions Policy Reporting and Report-Only mode](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/909) - @torgo, @hadleybeeman
* [MiniApp Lifecycle](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/523) - @cynthia, @torgo, @maxpassion

### Plenary Session - [2024-02-28](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20240228T200000&p1=224&p2=43&p3=136&p4=195&p5=26&p6=33&p7=248&p8=235)

* Breakout Rollup
* [Issue Triage](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Progress%3A+untriaged%22)

-----


## Breakout A

Present: Dan, Max, Amy, Yves

Regrets:

### [PR on Polyfill finding](https://github.com/w3ctag/polyfills/pull/37)

Dan: I made a proposed change... and I left an approval review.

Yves: I will merge and fix the markup issue on the editors' draft.

**AGREED TO MERGE PR AND REPUBLISH**


### [BBS Cryptosuite v2023 Securing Verifiable Credentials with Selective Disclosure using BBS Signatures](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/922) - @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman

Amy: we offered to close it... we got more comments I don't have a strong opinion because I don't have the right expertise. Everyone seems to be agreeing in the thread. I'm not sure what we can add.


<blockquote>
The TAG has discussed and we don't have anything further to add at this time regarding the issue raised by Manu.  We agree that it would be useful to have unlinkable credentials.  We don't have an opinion about whetether this should be a requirement, but it shouldn't be excluded as a possibility.  We think this issue should be discussed further in PING and we look forward to reviewing the outcome of their discussion. 
</blockquote>

**Agree to post this and close with resolution SATISFIED**

## Breakout B

Present: Peter, Yves, Lea, 

Regrets:


### [Early design review: Document Picture-in-Picture](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/798) - @LeaVerou, @torgo, @rhiaro

Discussed concerns about these being more generic capabilities that perhaps should be part fo window.open (or a replacement API)

### [Adding support for High Dynamic Range (HDR) imagery to HTML Canvas](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/917) - @LeaVerou, @plinss

Brought in ChrisL to discuss, sent feedback.


### [text-wrap: pretty](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/864) - @LeaVerou, @plinss

Still waiting for feedback, pinged


### [Specification review for CSS Anchor Positioning](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/848) - @LeaVerou, @plinss


## Breakout C

Present: Peter, Martin

Regrets: Tess


### [Delayed Clipboard Rendering](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/925) - @hober, @martinthomson, @hadleybeeman, @plinss

[Resolved: satisfied with concerns](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/925#issuecomment-1965287853)

> To conclude here, as this is an early review, we're OK with the resolution of the capability-probing thing (deferral) and are content with the explanation about the use of promises (our bad for missing that).  We do think that there are opportunities missed -- in particular, the callback could return a promise also -- but don't see any concrete problems.  


### [Invokers API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/920) - @hober, @plinss


Is there a way to detect that this feature exists?

Why is there no generic `.invoke()` method for invocation targets?  If targets have default action (called "auto"?) this might make it more ergonomic for authors rather than needing to work out how to achieve an action.

Why does `<details>` have "toggle" and "auto" actions doing the same thing?

Why does the `<dialog>` "toggle" action do the same thing as "cancel"?  Why does this not show the dialog when it is not already open?

Is there a polyfill planned?

Does invoking alter focus?  If something is invoked, does that receive focus?  It seems like this would usually be the case, but some actions might not need that. Pausing a video doesn't need to draw focus, but you would want to focus `<select>` or `<dialog>` or a popover.  Whatever the behavior is, it should be specified so to be consistent across UAs.


### [Specification review for fenced frames](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/838) - @hober, @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman, @plinss


## Breakout D

Present: Peter, Dan, Tess, Martin, Amy

Regrets: 


### [Isolated Web Apps](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/842) - @martinthomson, @LeaVerou

### [(Document Subtitle): Early review for adding a new value to the standard list of `name`s for a meta tag](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/819) - @hober, @LeaVerou, @torgo

### [Early design review for the Topics API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/726) - @torgo, @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman

Martin: is there much more that needs to be said

Dan: the last substantive update was about putting topics behind the attestation mechanism. Jeffrey points out that our previous review focuses on UI

Martin: a lot of attention has been paid to how google is planning to harvest topics, and that is not part of the api surface. We're being asked to ignore the fact the browser will harvest the information about what the user is interested in and only focus on the api surface

Dan: that is an implication.. I don't agree we should be solely reviewing the api in isolation

Martin: the nature of the information it provides and who provides it is a core part of the capability

Dan: is there more to say since June?

Martin: I don't think so

Amy: don't think so

Tess: could we say something like while we still think this isn't something we should add to the platform we can see that you've improved it since they first brought it to us? They're trying to mitigate?

Amy: they haven't improved it..

Martin: it's got worse, the number of topics has increased

Peter: one of the risks we were afraid of in the first place. You can make this mechanism as bad as you want it to be.

Dan: we agree with privacy goals?

Martin: important to give a nod towards... acknowledge the fact that browsers are able to implement things outside of standards, engage with their users as they see fit. But we think this is nonetheless bad for the platform.

Dan: the explainer lists the privacy goals

Tess: are they meeting their own privacy goals? Are their meeting our interpretation of their own privacy goals? My impression is they think they've done it. Maybe we have different goals.. are we interpreting their own bar differently than they are? Can we make that explicit? Something they think is not in the threat model but that we think it is.

> Their goals
> * It must be difficult to reidentify significant numbers of users across sites using just the API.
> * The API should provide a subset of the capabilities of third-party cookies.
> * The topics revealed by the API should be less personally sensitive about a user than what could be derived using todayâ€™s tracking methods.
> * Users should be able to understand the API, recognize what is being communicated about them, and have clear controls. This is largely a UX responsibility but it does require that the API be designed in a way such that the UX is feasible.

Tess: that last one seems to mean that topics shouldn't be opaque ... like arbitrary machine generated clusters...

Martin: concretely it does achieve the UX goal...  Chrome's UX isn't good - but the API meets that goal.

Amy: I'm not convinced.  I would interpret - even if they fully exposed a list of topics which change every week - it's still not practical for the user to stay on top of them...  Even if the browser surfaced each time the topics changed... I don't think they can meet that goal in a way that I think is workable UX...  We raised this issue in the first review...

Tess: 3rd goal - "less sensitive" ... obviously you can make the difference epislon and say you've met this goal...

Martin: it's a non-goal

Tess: it either means nothing or it means substantially different and I haven't seen that it's substantially different.  Probably a similar argument to be made for the 2nd one...

Peter: we're trying to get rid of 3rd party cookies...

Tess: ...and replace it with purpose built mechnaisms that addrsss specifc use cases.. so this is them saying that.

Peter: we want to replace the _acceptable_ use cases, not the bad parts of 3p cookies

Tess: we need to surface that in this comment...   We could imagine the interpretation of ...

Dan: the key part is using just the API - comes back to the discussion before - if you ignore the existence of all other apis then maybe. But if this data is being leaked or accessed in other ways, then no. You can't just ignore the existence of other parts of the platform. the other thing that's missing is something we raised very early on - the danger to marginalised groups and the interpretation of.. 'sensitive topics' ... this depends completely on your point of view and where you live and what community you're part of.  It's so amorphous.

Peter: and shifts over time

Amy: we've raised the marginelised groups thing a couple of times... no meaningful response.

Tess: yes agree. The privacy properties of this proposal aren't sufficient. Inadequate to your own stated goals. Additionally there are other goals we think should be there you haven't met.

<blockquote>
To summarize and close this review, we note that there are some disagreements about goals here that underpin the disconnect.

The goals you have set out in the explainer are:

> * It must be difficult to reidentify significant numbers of users across sites using just the API.
> * The API should provide a subset of the capabilities of third-party cookies.
> * The topics revealed by the API should be less personally sensitive about a user than what could be derived using todayâ€™s tracking methods.
> * Users should be able to understand the API, recognize what is being communicated about them, and have clear controls. This is largely a UX responsibility but it does require that the API be designed in a way such that the UX is feasible.

The set of goals also implictly compares the privacy characteristics of this API to the web **with** 3rd party cookies (and tracking).  In the spirit of "[leaving the web better than you found it](https://w3ctag.github.io/design-principles/#leave-the-web-better)," we would like to see the design goals achieved whilst also preserving the privacy characteristics of the web **without** third party cookies.

We do acknowledge that you have arguably achieved the 4th goal, with an API that does not actively prevent the user from understanding and recognizing what is being communicated about them. However the implicit [privacy labour](https://w3ctag.github.io/privacy-principles/#privacy-labour) that would be required to manage this set of topics on an ongoing basis remains a key question.

Finally, we challenge the assertion that reidentification *in the absence of other information* is the right benchmark to apply.  As we previously noted, the potential for this to affect privacy unevenly across different web users is a risk that is not adequately mitigated.

</blockquote>

**We agree to close with an unsatisfied and with the above comment.**

### [Review Request for Attribution Reporting API](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/724) - @torgo, @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman

### [~~First-Party~~ Related Website Sets](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/342) - @hober, @torgo, @rhiaro, @hadleybeeman

*we go back to and re-review our [original feedback](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/blob/main/reviews/first_party_sets_feedback.md) on first party sets*

Dan: we focussed a lot on origin, feel like this is one of the key things we got criticised for - they said it doesn't change the origin model. We said it does change the basic security model, especially if you start building other things on top of it.

Martin: the document does stand - if you go and replace *origin* with *site* or *tld+1*... the original position stands... 

Martin: what's changed in the intervening time isthat google accepted storage access api as the safety valve for a lot of problems here. They've integrated storage access more deeply with related website sets. That changes things substantially in two ways - first, storage access api exists as an option on google's platform and websites can exercise that option. They've accepted this is part of the way web is going to work now. Second, they've changed the way in which related websites work. They've changed the criteria. None of that really matters  - what matters is they've used related websites sets as a shortcut for approving storage access. That's a design change. If someone doesn't get to choose, they don't get to choose - that's the core of the disagreement - taking away peoples ablity to choose

Tess: storage access is asking a question to the user 

Martin: this is taking that option away from them

Tess: right

Dan: in the meantime hasn't it become more like a registry?

Amy: we can't just talk about it in isolation...

Martin: there are lists out there such as the PSL.. PSL takes away capabilities primarily. Whereas this is about granting web sites capabilities... All of the original feedback still stands.

Dan: are any other browsers interested in this?

Martin: I believe MS

Dan: they have said that other browsers do this - all have heuristics which effectively do this, and all this is doing is creating a transparency around it so isn't that better?

Martin: I think we [Mozilla] managed to eliminate basically all of those - our move to full partitioning meant we elimited most of the lists we were relying on. I think it's wrong. Those lists were transitionary. They're constantly removing things from it, we're not attempting to build something new into the web platform.

Amy: we discussed this early on I think... it feels like standardising a workaround rather than fixing the core problem that led to the need for the workaround.

Martin: the auto grant capability is implementation defined - which is to say we don't think this is subject to standardisation, or part of the cross-browser agreement. I think we might need to explicitly reject that.

Tess: they don't have consensus with everyone else shipping the storage access api that an implementation that does this is acceptable

Martin: taking that off the table is problematic

<blockquote>
We recognize that there are some substantial changes to the API since our [original review](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/blob/main/reviews/first_party_sets_feedback.md).

We acknowledge that our use of the term *origin* in this feedback may have lead to confusion, and that we should have used the term *site* in this context. However, the fundamental points raised in that original review stand.

The primary change here is a reliance on the Storage Access API.  However, the decision to automatically grant requests has the same net effect as in the original proposal.  We do not think that labeling an auto-grant decision as "implementation-defined" is acceptable, as that defines how the web is experienced by websites and users.

The argument has been made that other browsers ship heuristics that do much the same thing. Our argument has been and continues to be that these heuristics are essentially a workaround and that we should not be building new technologies into the platform that cement this way of working. Furthermore, we observe that many browsers are working to eliminate the need for these heuristics.

We are therefore re-closing this review.
</blockquote>

**we agree to re-close as unsatisfied with the above comment**

## Breakout E

Present: Dan, Max

Regrets: Yves


### [TAG review for web app `scope_extensions`](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/875) - @torgo, @ylafon

**bumped to 11-march week**

### [Early Design Review: Opener Protections](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/916) - @torgo, @matatk, @hadleybeeman

Max: they responded - they have said they don't have feedback but hope to have "in Q2" but that doesn't answer the question... do they want us to choose which proposal is better?

Dan: *leaves request for further info as a comment*
 
### [Permissions Policy Reporting and Report-Only mode](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/909) - @torgo, @hadleybeeman

**bumped**

### [MiniApp Lifecycle](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/523) - @cynthia, @torgo, @maxpassion

Max: progress is happening - We can ask XFQ to give us and update...

Dan: it would be good to know what the current state is with the proposed code signing solution... *sends XFQ a note*

## Plenary Session

Present:

Regrets: 


### Breakout Rollup

#### Breakout A

#### Breakout B

#### Breakout C

### Issue Triage
